
-- Scenario --

Review the following scenario. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

This scenario is based on a fictional company:

Botium Toys is a small U.S. business that develops and sells toys. The business has a single physical location, which serves as their main office, a storefront, and warehouse for their products. However, Botium Toy’s online presence has grown, attracting customers in the U.S. and abroad. As a result, their information technology (IT) department is under increasing pressure to support their online market worldwide. 

The manager of the IT department has decided that an internal IT audit needs to be conducted. She expresses concerns about not having a solidified plan of action to ensure business continuity and compliance, as the business grows. She believes an internal audit can help better secure the company’s infrastructure and help them identify and mitigate potential risks, threats, or vulnerabilities to critical assets. The manager is also interested in ensuring that they comply with regulations related to internally processing and accepting online payments and conducting business in the European Union (E.U.).   

The IT manager starts by implementing the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF), establishing an audit scope and goals, listing assets currently managed by the IT department, and completing a risk assessment. The goal of the audit is to provide an overview of the risks and/or fines that the company might experience due to the current state of their security posture.

Your task is to review the IT manager’s scope, goals, and risk assessment report. Then, perform an internal audit by completing a controls and compliance checklist. 


-- Step-By-Step Instructions --

Follow the instructions to complete each step of the activity. Then, answer the 5 questions at the end of the activity before going to the next course item to compare your work to the completed exemplar.


-- Step 1: Access supporting materials --

The following supporting materials will help you complete this activity. Keep materials open as you proceed to the next steps. 

To use the supporting materials for this course item, click the links. 

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s2u_RuhRAI40JSh-eZHvaFsV1ZMxcNSWXifHDTOsgFc/template/preview#heading=h.evidx83t54sc
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HsIw5HNDbRXzW7pmhPLsK06B7HF-KMifENO_TlccbSU/template/preview


Step 2: Conduct the audit: Controls and compliance checklist

Conduct the next step of the security audit by completing the controls and compliance checklist. 

To complete the checklist, open the supporting materials provided in Step 1. Then:

1. Review the scope, goals, and risk assessment report details, with a focus on:
a. The assets currently managed by the IT department
b. The bullet points under “Additional comments” in the Risk assessment section

2. Consider information provided in the scenario, the scope, goals, and risk assessment report, as well as details provided in other documents linked within the checklist. 

3. Then, review the question in the controls and compliance sections of the checklist and select “yes” or “no” to answer the question in each section (note: the recommendations section is optional).*


Step 3: Assess your activity

The following is a self-assessment for your controls and compliance checklist. You will use these statements to review your own work. The self-assessment process is an important part of the learning experience because it allows you to objectively assess your security audit.

There are a total of 5 points possible for this activity and each statement is worth 1 point. The items correspond to each step you completed for the activity. 

To complete the self-assessment, first open your controls assessment and compliance checklist. Then respond yes or no to each statement. 

When you complete and submit your responses, you will receive a percentage score. This score will help you confirm whether you completed the required steps of the activity. The recommended passing grade for this project is at least 80% (or 4/5 points). If you want to increase your score, you can revise your project and then resubmit your responses to reflect any changes you made. Try to achieve at least 4 points before continuing on to the next course item.
