Question 1

You are a security professional training all employees at your company on creating a strong password. You explain different strategies that they can use for making passwords secure. You also demonstrate how to change passwords. Your teammates have a wide range of technical expertise.

Answer: In this scenario, should you use a GUI or CLI to demonstrate how to change passwords? Explain your reasoning in 2-3 sentences.

Thank you for your response. A GUI would be more effective in this scenario. This is because GUIs are easier for beginners to navigate. These individuals will likely already have experience using GUIs on their phones and computers but may not be familiar with CLIs.



Question 2

You are reviewing log files for a department at your company. Log file names are supposed to include the name of the department. After reviewing multiple log files, you realize that the file names do not include the name of the department. You decide to rename all the log files for this department. There are hundreds of log files.

In this scenario, should you use a GUI or CLI to rename the log files? Explain your reasoning in 2-3 sentences.

Answer: You should use the cli, it's more efficient to do that with the cli.

For example: mv old_name new_name

Thank you for your response. A CLI would generally be more effective in this scenario. This is because CLIs allow you to perform multiple tasks simultaneously. In this case, you could rename all the files at once. If you used a GUI for this task, you would need to rename the files individually unless you had access to a special program for batch file renaming.



Question 3

You are installing multiple applications. You want to keep a history of commands while you install the applications. This will allow you to check later to ensure that you installed all of the necessary applications and that you installed them correctly.

In this scenario, should you use a GUI or CLI to install the applications? Explain your reasoning in 2-3 sentences.

Answer: You should use the cli, with a history command you see all, you last I guess 100 commands. You can also set the value to more.

Thank you for your response. A CLI would be more effective in this scenario. This is because a CLI records a history of all commands used in the CLI. GUIs do not necessarily include a history file of all actions performed in the GUI.
