
-- Activity Overview --

In this activity, you will review an example of a final report and answer a series of quiz questions. 

So far, you've learned about the actions involved in the Post-incident Activity phase of the NIST Incident Response Lifecycle. This includes the development of the final report, which is documentation that provides a comprehensive review of an incident. It includes essential details of all events related to the incident and recommendations for future prevention.


-- Scenario --

Review the following scenario. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

You recently joined the security team as a level-one security operation center (SOC) analyst at a mid-sized retail company. Along with its physical store locations, your company also conducts operations in e-commerce, which account for 80% of its sales.

You are spending your first week of training becoming familiar with the company's security processes and procedures. Recently, the company experienced a major security incident involving a data breach of over one million users. Because this was a recent and major security incident, your team is working to prevent incidents like this from happening again. This breach happened before you began working at the company. You have been asked to review the final report.

To gain an understanding of the incident's life cycle, your goals for your review are as follows:

· Goal 1: Identify exactly what happened.
· Goal 2: Identify when it happened. 
· Goal 3: Identify the response actions that the company took.
· Goal 4: Identify future recommendations.

Note: Use the incident handler's journal you started in a previous activity to take notes during the activity and keep track of your findings.


-- Step-By-Step Instructions --

Consult the supporting materials to answer the quiz questions that follow. After you complete the quiz, you can compare your answers to the feedback provided.

Step 1: Access supporting materials

The following supporting materials will help you complete this activity. Keep them open as you proceed to the questions.

To use the supporting materials for this course item, click the link and select “Use Template.” 


Question 1
What type of security incident was the organization affected by?

Malware
Data theft
Vishing
Phishing


Question 2
Which section of the report includes an explanation of the root cause of the incident?

Timeline
Investigation
Recommendations
Executive summar


Question 3
What did the attacker use to exploit the e-commerce web application vulnerability?

Web server logs
Data breach
Forced browsing
User error


Question 4
What recommendations did the organization implement to prevent future recurrences? Select two answers.

Implemented routine vulnerability scans 
Implemented access control mechanisms
Paid the $50,000 payment request
Provided identity protection services to the affected customers












